
€Whatƒre you reading? Judith asked, bustling around the house. 

Karl had no wish to get into an argument this time. As he got older, he found it more and more wearing. He decided not to batter at the problem, but rather to avoid it. 

€A book, he muttered, gathering together the shreds of his patience in order to use the most neutral tone possible.

€Whatƒs it called, that beloved literature of yours? Begins with an ‚fƒ...?

€Science fiction, he replied resignedly. 

€I knew it was some kind of fickly-fiddle-dee-dee.

‚...ignore it ignore it ignore it ignore it ignore it...,ƒ he repeated without pause in his thoughts, like a mantra. He recognised that sheƒd asked out of spite. After all, their relationship hadnƒt just begun today, so of course she already knew the answer. This wasnƒt the first time theyƒd had a conversation on the topic.

Theyƒd been going through a difficult period recently and only the day before heƒd been wondering whether or not to end it with her. However, heƒd assumed he still loved her, since he liked to sit with her sometimes and simply indulge in doing nothing at all. He couldnƒt do that with anyone else. Even so, she quite often drove him mad. He did acknowledge, though, that love isnƒt like a rock, enduring and everlastingly constant, but is more like a plant; it requires attention, nurture and care. So heƒd decided to play the gardener.

Judith is a biblical name. The Old Testament Judith of Bethulia was described as a woman of exceeding beauty and great riches, but very religious at the same time. When the Assyrian army attacked Israel, the highest commander, Holofernes, laid siege to the city of Bethulia. All seemed to be lost, but Judith decided that she alone would defend the entire city. That evening, she prayed and then set out for the Assyrian camp, carrying only a bag holding some morsels of food and drink. She told the guards that she was fleeing the besieged city to save her life. When one of them brought her into Holofernesƒ presence, the commander was immediately enamoured of the deceptively beautiful... and just as deceptively defenceless... woman and gave orders to his servants to attend on her. Holofernes planned to take Judith on the fourth day. To that end, he held a great banquet and, while the feasting was in progress, he urged her to drink copious amounts of wine. Yet, so inflamed was he that, in the end, it was he who drank himself into unconsciousness. Judith seized this opportunity... and taking up Holofernesƒ own sword, she cut off his head. Then she put it in the bag which had held her food and returned to Bethulia. The next day, the commanderƒs head was hung from the walls of the besieged city. When the Assyrians saw it and realised what had happened... what that €one Hebrew woman was capable of... they were seized with fear and they fled. At that, the Israelites took off in pursuit of the enemyƒs troops and crushed them.

Karl had a justified suspicion that his own Judith was very familiar with this cheerful story, since time and again sheƒd said to him €if you piss me off, [2Iƒll cut off your fucking head].

