
The following day, Karl was contentedly taking part in a traditional drinking session with his brother. He was planning to question him about the ‚vanishing paintingƒ while they were at it, although he didnƒt quite know why it was bothering him so much.

They were sitting on the veranda of Antonƒs house in the suburbs and sipping cognac.

€The difference between pˆtŠ with bacon and bacon with pˆtŠ needs settling once and for all.

€Top ‚em up.

During one of the top-ups, Karl turned to the topic of the ‚daubƒ, describing it in a fair amount of detail.

€But... what painting? Anton looked genuinely surprised. €No, I donƒt remember any picture. I mean, I wouldnƒt forget a monstrosity like that.

The moment of conversation left Karl completely confused. 

€Iƒm at an utter loss to understand how thatƒs possible. He mused for a moment, then continued, speaking partly to himself. €Iƒm certain weƒve even got some photos of a party at our place somewhere and you can see the wall with that picture on it in them. This is probably the strangest thing thatƒs happened to me recently. Exactly like an antithesis to *deja vu*. He took a large swig of his drink. €Something was there and itƒs gone... Maybe space-time is collapsing, he said with a laugh.

€I donƒt know what youƒre muttering about there. Anton wasnƒt convinced. €Time is time, it runs linearly. We see that every day, he added, topping their glasses up again.

€Thatƒs not necessarily the case. Not at all. Karl spoke calmly, even though his brotherƒs irritated resistance was beginning to make itself felt... and so was the cognac heƒd already drunk. It was going to his head with a vengeance now. €It could be a bit like the sun. How do we perceive it? Because of our limitations, it seems to us that the sun moves in relation to the earth... that it travels from east to west, even though thatƒs not what happens at all. And maybe humansƒ limited perception also triggers the impression of the linearity of time, whereas, in fact, it might be a random collection of small fragments, for instance, like a mirror shattered into myriad shards, with each one containing the reflection of a part of reality. When the shards are similar to one another, that might be exactly where the impression of *dŠj† vu*, comes from, for example, or an automatic aversion or attraction to someone weƒve just met... or my ‚anti-*deja-vu*ƒ... 

He smiled to himself.

€My God, you have to give up drinking, said Anton. €But from tomorrow. [5And for now, top ‚em up].

