
While he was waiting for his turn to go into the psychiatristÉs office, Karl felt impelled to have a cigarette. His feelings about the addiction were mixed, given that his father had died of cancer. ÇWhatÉs interesting is that Father never smoked, but cancer did for him anyway, so actually, what would be the sense in avoiding tobacco,Å he mused, reaching for the packet of Gauloises he kept tucked away for just such an occasion.

His father had battled with cancer for years, enjoying a relatively comfortable life. It was only in the final months that his body was suddenly ravaged; *de facto*, the disease had rendered him bedridden in the space of a week. Karl had cared for him to the very end, but it was in precisely that period that the two of them had found it difficult to establish a conversation of any length. Even during their shorter exchanges they had tried not to look at each other, but had gazed somewhere off to the side, as if the slow process of dying had pushed them both in a state of embarrassment.

KarlÉs train of thought was interrupted when he was invited to go into the office. Doctor Nadia Morozova was standing with her back to the door and didnÉt notice that he been admitted. Karl watched her in silence for a while as she straightened the seams of her stockings. TheyÉd known each other for years and thereÉd even been a time when a deeper connection had run between them. That was nothing but history now, though. In a long-term relationship, people can begin to feel an aversion for their partner, frequently accusing them of a great many inconsequential things, quite often completely unjustly. This happens because itÉs a way that lovers attempt to hide the fact that, in reality, they are angry with themselves for no longer being able to perceive that *something* in their partner which other people can still see. In other words, putting it plainly, the dog-in-the-manger syndrome raises its head. It might be that Karl and Nadia were both aware of this, since what remained of their relationship was a kind of trust, if not friendship.

In general, he did the talking and she allowed him to open up and, so far, this had worked for them.

She heard him out and then thought for a moment.

ÄNonetheless, you decided to bring this to me...Å

ÄYou know how it goes. Talk to the wise and stay silent with the fools.Å He smiled.

ÄSo. You think you have a psychiatric disorder? I need to know what your inner attitude is to whatÉs happened to you. Are you aware that itÉs completely unreal?Å

ÄAre you asking if IÉm a lunatic? I donÉt know. I thought producing a diagnosis like that was more your role.Å Karl laughed nervously. ÄThere was a time when I gave some thought to this... if continually interpreting and fictionalising is a trait of the human mind, then dreams can only be attempts to interpret and fictionalise a process that has *nothing* in common with the actual experiencing of reality; the processing of the data collected during the day. I assume that, then, the mind makes use of the most distant associations possible so as to somehow bring processes diametrically remote from the brainÉs ÇdaytimeÉ workings, processes that are more reminiscent of a computerÉs data processing operations than the workings of a conscious mind, into line with familiar reality. You understand what I mean. An example of a close association; the doorbell rings and, at that moment, the sleeping person dreams that someoneÉs ringing the doorbell, that they come in, *etcetera*. IÉd say that all of us are familiar with a phenomenon like that. The sleeping mind reacts to a stimulus from the outside world. What I have in mind here is that if, in the dream, the doorbell was transformed into the sound of a church bell or a falling glass, IÉd also accept that as a close association.Å

ÄWhat does that have to do with your condition?Å Nadia asked.

ÄI have the impression that a similar phenomenon could occur during a psychological illness; the damaged mind is carrying out the strangest, most reckless and even, more likely than not, completely nonsensical operations, but some part of it is still striving to interpret and fictionalise them by using mechanisms similar to the ones that come into play during sleep. Such intensive work deprives the mind of both the possibility and the time for contact with reality, so thereÉs either almost no contact or, quite simply, zero contact. The most distant... or, more rarely, slightly closer... associations then become the basic principle for the mindÉs activity, the sick personÉs route, in its own way, to the exterior world, but, at one and the same time, the therapistÉs route... or key... to the patientÉs interior world. However, I think that using that one route to reach the contorted mind would either be a singularly difficult task or, quite simply, an impossible one, because a person with a mind thatÉs working in the classical way is incapable of comprehending the trains of associative thought followed by the sick mind. In my opinion, a healthy person only uses them when theyÉre asleep, while we all make use of nothing but ÇcloseÉ associations when weÉre awake.Å

Nadia jotted something down in the notebook lying on her desk.

ÄIn that case, what are the distant associations like?Å she asked a moment later.

ÄThe difference here is so great that I wouldnÉt even be able to give an example of a distant association, because only one of its outer limits is located in the reality weÉre really familiar with. The other, after all, is situated in the unimaginable world of insanity. In other words, close associations are those where both extremities are rooted in our reality, where the principle of relevance applies... we use a few of the most characteristic features of an object in our associations. I donÉt think the more remote and distant associations are grounded in that principle. Forced to fictionalise elements that are diametrically removed from reality, the sleeping or sick mind latches on to randomly selected features, almost like someone drowning clutches at a straw. It doesnÉt in the least seize on those that are most typical. Because the things itÉs forced to associate with have nothing, or almost nothing, in common.Å

ÄWell, I think you should take this to a psychiatrist you havenÉt fucked yet,Å Madame Doctor retorted in a professional tone. She prescribed the patient some pills, recommended a month without reading science fiction and then ordered him to get out and come back if his problems recurred.

Karl had got as far as the door when he turned back to say one more thing.

ÄNadia, I...Å

He froze on the spot. He was alone in the office. Nadia had vanished. The furniture had vanished. The fixtures and fittings had vanished. The room was completely empty. He rushed out into the waiting room... and into the same situation. Bare walls and not a living soul.

Terrified, Karl [8raced out of the building and into the street]. 

