
Karl couldnÉt believe that what was happening was nothing more than the product of his brain. Fortunately, the fact that he earned a living writing sci-fi meant that he was fairly well acquainted with several scholars in fields such as physics and maths, since theyÉd performed the role of official consultants on his books from time to time. One of them was Doctor Einarsson and he was the man Karl was now heading to see. Marching along with an energetic step, he wondered what would happen if, in addition to objects, people also started vanishing. Judith... The mere tentative heralding of that thought terrified him.

He wasnÉt, perhaps, all that much of a family man. On more than one occasion, his father had said that heÉd always taken care of his family and never thrown money away on drink, cards and whores. Yet, as heÉd said it, what had echoed in his voice was more akin to regret than pride. Moreover, Karl believed that even a great many items of everyday use were capable of lasting longer than a modern-day relationship between a man and a woman. Stereo equipment. Shoes. Nivea cream. Within a few years, things would probably have reached the point where even fresh yogurt would last longer. Despite this, Karl was hoping that, this time, this was the genuine article. His family. He didnÉt even want to think that something might happen to Judith.

Doctor Einarsson wasnÉt all that old, but the degree of abnegation and neglected seediness heÉd attained meant that Karl had the impression he was communing with a man well advanced in years... and one who was both malicious and aggravatingly acute, at that. He listened to the entire story and then sank into an enormous armchair upholstered in plush which had undoubtedly been red many years previously.

Finally, he spoke. ÄSo, you believe that objects of various sizes are unexpectedly vanishing along with human memory of them,Å he said slowly, tugging on a shaggy, greying beard adorning the vicinity of lips stained yellow by way of kilograms of tobacco smoked and litres of coffee drunk.

ÄIÉm... IÉm just asking...Å

ÄA steaming pile of fucking horseshit can also occur in the interrogative,Å the scholar interrupted sharply.

Karl had known him for years and was well aware of the fact that it was sometimes worth showing him a certain degree of patience. So he kept quiet and, after a moment, Einarsson did, in fact, pick up the topic again.

ÄSome physicists believe that the whole universe and everything we experience every day is only a holographic reflection of physical processes taking place somewhere else entirely... in a distant, two-dimensional space thatÉs primal in relation to ours.Å

ÄAll right, but what does that have to do with my situation?Å Despite his hold on his patience, Karl was beginning to get irritated. ÄScientists announce their highfalutin theories, but IÉm more interested in what the implications arising from them are for everyday life and ordinary people. What the hell does hologram theory or PlatoÉs bloody cave have to do with the phenomena that have occurred recently? I donÉt give a damn about deliberations or whether, when I wipe my backside, the original me in the original world is wiping his two-dimensional original of my rounded behind, or whether his arse is more real than mine is!Å

Einarsson smiled to himself.

ÄThe reflections can often be imprecise,Å he remarked. ÄThey can contain defects. Anyway, itÉs always fascinated me how suspiciously close the ancient thinkers were to modern science... and sometimes even to the truth in itself. LetÉs take... Democritus of Andera, who developed his atomic theory of the world before Christ was ever born... Anaximander, who admitted the existence of numerous worlds emerging in parallel in the *apeiron*... in a manner disturbingly close to modern research into the laws of quantum physics, which indicate that they not only exist in parallel to our universe, but exert a mutual influence on each other, as well. I sometimes have the impression that they werenÉt pioneers, but rather reality was slowly adapting itself to our imaginations and expectations... that weÉre laboriously carving it out with our own minds... Maybe Earth really was flat thousands of years ago...?Å

He broke off and rummaged noisily around the room in the ensuing pause before finally succeeded in his quest to light a small, blackened pipe. When he continued, his face was almost entirely veiled in smoke.

ÄEven if what youÉve said were true, thereÉs no way I could be of help to you. In order to draw the correct conclusions, IÉd have to make a thorough analysis of the changes as they occur, and they... as you maintain... donÉt exist from my point of view. So, besides the question ÇWhat the hell is going on,É there remains one more key question. Why are you the only person who can perceive the phenomenon?Å

Karl was receiving the impression that Einarsson didnÉt believe him. Maybe the scientist thought that the questions heÉd brought to him actually related to another sci-fi novel? Nonetheless, heÉd proven helpful in one respect. Yes, indeed, it was most odd. Setting insanity aside... for what reason was Karl the only conscious observer of the events that were taking place?

Turning that thought over in his mind... [8he set off home].

