
On the way home, he studied his surroundings intently; he had an overpowering impression that there were fewer people around than usual. Inwardly, he was counting on the fact that it only seemed that way to him. He was also seriously concerned about Judithƒs fate. Would he find her at home when he got back? What did it matter that she sometimes irritated him? Perhaps recent events had opened his eyes but, be that as it may, he now knew that heƒd certainly never meet anyone else like her again. Besides, he recognised that a bit of an intellectual set-to got the blood flowing. 

€Just let her be safe and sound, God... he thought in terror as he slowly grasped the door handle. €God, help me... and if you donƒt exist, thatƒd be out-and-out shittiness on your part.

€Ah! Here you are! Judith opened the door to him; sheƒd heard him fumbling ineffectively at the lock. €I was beginning to wonder what youƒd got sucked into.

Karl wouldnƒt have been able to describe the relief he felt even if heƒd tried. But he didnƒt. He simply pulled Judith to him and hugged her as hard as he could.

€Youƒre suffocating me, you lunatic! She laughed. €Iƒm glad to see you, too. Come on, come inside now.

Over the next few days, Karl got over his recent trying experiences and did his utmost to forget about the strange events and live normally. To make the most of what he had. Previously, he probably hadnƒt really realised just how important his home, his work on his succession of books, his conversations with Judith and at times, even his arguments with her, were to him.

Judith sometimes questioned him about his pursuit of fiction.

€Why do you actually need to create different stories? And when youƒre not writing anything, then youƒre reading again, or watching a whole heap of films, serials, series...? Is it some kind of escapism?

Karlƒs reply would invariably involve the same explanation.

€I simply believe that lifeƒs too short. The awareness of inevitable death generates an imperative in me to prolong life by every possible means. Even if itƒs only an ostensible prolongment. Writing and reading and watching are the ways I absorb other peopleƒs lives, the fictional and the possible alike. Every story is someoneƒs life... and I can observe it, do you see? I can experience it together with the central character. I donƒt know what awaits me after death... eternal nothingness, possibly. In comparison to that, my one brief life is definitely not nearly enough. Itƒs outrageously inadequate. So fictionƒs my way of compensating for my forthcoming non-existence. You never know when the worldƒs going to end.

Sometimes, that was enough to satisfy her and sheƒd walk away, bored... as she underscored with a smile... by ‚the sad bullshitting of an unfulfilled intellectualƒ. But there were also times when she took up the topic.

€I think the same thing applies to history, you know... as the knowledge of it in the making. Look how much information we have that, perhaps, we unconsciously treat as memories of a kind. We know what happened in the Middle Ages, in antiquity... Thanks to reconstructions, documentaries and, damn it, even thanks to bullshit costume dramas and bodice rippers, we have a kind of picture of what those people looked like, of their customs and of how they spoke. Knowledge of the standards of medicine and hygiene of those times... and of the cuisine... even enables us to imagine the smell of a given era. We didnƒt live then, but we have a different impression, because, after all, in this way, weƒre ‚rememberingƒ everything. When you think about it... how vast our lives have become thanks to that. How far they extend in time!

€I agree. Thatƒs the first half of the problem. Because, to use your description, we extend our lives in both directions. Yes, weƒd most certainly like to *have* lived for ever, but besides that, weƒd also wish eternal life for ourselves in the sense of living *from* now for all time. So, in mind, if not in body, we squeeze ourselves as far as possible into the future. Hence futurology. Hence sci-fi. They give us the sense that we know what the world will be like in the future... they ‚extendƒ our lives ‚forwardƒ. Thatƒs why I write. Even though hardly anyone at all reads it.

 €Donƒt exaggerate. I did see what they wrote about that piece from several years back, you know... that itƒs ‚a cult novelƒ.

€It seems that, if you wait long enough, then even shit will obtain a noble patina. Anyway, the flourishing of a so-called cult isnƒt so much the upshot of either an authorƒs efforts or the quality of a work; itƒs more a result of the activity of the readersƒ minds.

One day, Karl was looking through some old documents, searching for his father's death certificate, but it was nowhere to be found. He phoned the register office which had issued it.

€I sorry, but Iƒm afraid I have no information on the matter." The clerkƒs voice held an edge of suspicion that Karl was sadly all too familiar with now. €You must have the wrong branch. If anything at all had been dealt with here, thereƒd certainly be some trace of it.

So, in the tenuous hope that it was, indeed, a mistake, Karl phoned the hospital which had issued the medical certificate of death.

€No. Unfortunately not. Listening to the voice of the doctor on duty as it came through the phone, Karl mechanically envisaged a short, bald man. He started wondering if someone could sound bald. €There are no notes at all and no medical history. No one of that name has ever been treated here. Goodbye.

After Karl had visited several other public institutions, it became clear that neither his father nor his mother had ever existed at all. There was no record of them, no documentation concerning them whatsoever. Karl felt that he couldnƒt bear this much longer, that he might do himself some harm. The time had clearly come to decide whether or not to involve someone else in the matter. He knew he couldnƒt cope with it alone any longer. He weighed it up in his mind. Should he [9tell his brother everything and ask him to help]? But maybe it would be better [0not to risk that]...? You never know... maybe Anton wouldnƒt believe him and would take the entire story for a symptom of a serious mental illness...?

