
Anton didnƒt utter a word for a long moment. And then he stayed quiet a bit longer.

Finally, he spoke. €I donƒt know how Iƒm supposed to respond to this. I mean, weƒve always been orphans. Our parentsƒ identities were never established.

€Thatƒs absurd! They both lived to a ripe old age! Karl was having a serious problem with staying calm. However, he did what he could not to seem like a frenzied madman. €Father died of cancer ten years ago, two days after his eightieth birthday.

€Have you... have you got any photos of them? Documents...? Bloody hell, man, anything at all?!

€No! Thatƒs exactly the problem! Everything thatƒs connected with an object that disappears is also subject to utter disintegration, including all memory of it.

€...but this doesnƒt apply to you.

Karl sighed resignedly.

€It doesnƒt apply to me... and I donƒt know why that is. Iƒm trying to get to the bottom of it. But I canƒt take it any longer... I think I might have to shoot myself in the head. We had parents, we had a happy childhood, we lived with them until we were twenty or thereabouts... I mean, I lived with them till then, because you only moved away from Mother thirteen years later, you loser, Karl laughed unintentionally.

€Yes, thatƒs me down to the ground, Anton said, his face twisting in a cynical smile. He could see that his brother was in a wretched psychological state and he didnƒt want to risk leaving him alone in his bizarre questing. €Iƒm not saying I believe you. But Iƒm not saying I wonƒt help you, either. One way or another, weƒll get through this together. Like weƒve got through everything else. What do you suggest we should do next, then?

Karl heaved an evident sigh of relief. €Right now, Iƒm giving some thought to conspiracy and parascientific theories. Heƒd clearly acquired new energy for the task. €Since rationalismƒs failed me for the time being, we might as well look for answers somewhere else. It canƒt hurt.

€You could be right. Scientists are a bit like public officials. Bureaucrats have an irksome characteristic; they continually try to describe everything. Take any example you like. Works of art. I can just see a pen-pusher compiling a catalogue... or drawing up a parliamentary bill concerning the nationƒs heritage... and describing Vel‡zquezƒs *Surrender of Breda* down to the very last detail. Itƒs kind of... dehumanising. 

Anton thought for a moment before continuing. 

€Or, even better... Pierre Schaefferƒs *musique concr‰te*, he chuckled. €Of course. Thereƒs a multitude of works where any attempt whatsoever to describe them verbally... even a successful one... immediately distorts the workƒs meaning, significance and purpose absolutely. In a case like that, a verbal description simultaneously becomes a deformation.

Karl mused over his brotherƒs words for a moment. Then he took up the conversational thread.

€OK. [AWe could talk to a group postulating the existence of the Mandela effect]. You could say they believe that alternate realities overlap and that people unknowingly percolate between them. Something else thatƒd be apt are the kind of [Bsects that believe the world is simply a computer game]. Iƒve seen their members hanging around in the streets several times, wearing cybergothic outfits and clutching weird banners. And maybe we should also look into the conspiracy theories which say that the Moonƒs made of cheese.

Anton laughed, though a touch nervously.

€I know a woman who's involved in creationist theory, he said. Perhaps we should check whether, perchance, [Cthe Lord God Himself isnƒt punishing us]?

