
At home, Karl continued to reflect on the events of the day. A return to the consideration of scientific paths seemed essential. He knew a couple more physicists... and, in order not to be deemed a lunatic, he could present the whole affair as a story. He could tell a barefaced lie and say that he needed another series of consultations regarding one of his sci-fi books.

In the end, he concluded that he didnÉt have the time for half measures and that heÉd go for broke. However, rather than a brilliant theorist, he chose an excellent practitioner... Doctor Vloshin. And he lied through his teeth on the phone.

ÄDoctor Vloshin? ItÉs Karl. Yes. Could you listen... Well, no, itÉs not exactly a consultation this time. Actually, think what you like, as long as you solve the problem, because what IÉve got for you today is an unusual matter, but a highly lucrative one. Please imagine a hypothetical situation where realityÉs fading away for some reason. I donÉt know. No, I havenÉt got a clue... youÉre the physicist, so IÉm asking you to come up with something. Yes. ItÉs about urgently developing a way of connecting every single object of reality stably so as to prevent its irrevocable disintegration. And IÉm leaving that to you. A model, a formula, a machine... anything. I know youÉre busy, but IÉve saved the best for last... you can set your own price for the job. What? Yes. Absolutely... ask as much as you like. Of course I can afford it. Just accept that IÉve received a legacy from an aunt. ThatÉs right. Fucking rich. OK. So IÉll be waiting for your call. Roll up your sleeves and get on to it!Å

ÇI shouldÉve flashed a roll of banknotes at once,É Karl thought, as he ended the call. ÄEven those imaginary ones. IÉll worry about paying later. But what Vloshin doesnÉt know canÉt hurt him. And if he fails..., [Ethen I wonÉt be worrying about anything at all any more]. 

