
The length of the bell rope was quite impressive. Karl bound one end round his waist and tied the other end firmly to a solitary tree growing nearby. He stood above the dark abyss. The few remaining stars twinkled at him encouragingly. With a violent movement, he thrust a hand into the abyss... and snatched it back just as rapidly. He hadnƒt felt a thing, no temperature difference at all. Still, he was hesitant. He realised that the world was ending, so it would be worth absorbing, in one last, despairing gulp, the unfathomable knowledge that his mind, for which time was most probably running out, thirsted for. He also knew that, in truth, the world had ended for him much, much earlier... when heƒd lost Judith. At that thought, he felt a painful wrench in his chest. Without reflection, he leapt from the edge of Earth and into space...

...... but he didnƒt fall downwards. Even though the prevailing temperature around him was bearable and it was also possible to breathe, Karl was floating in a weightless condition. ‚Ah, right,ƒ he thought. ‚Another law of physics has vanished, too. Bearing in mind the nature of whatƒs happened in recent weeks, I wonƒt be surprised if I bang my fucking head on the dome of the firmament.ƒ The woodcut in Flammarionƒs book had popped into his mind.

He turned round and looked at Earth receding behind him. He had to admit that, despite the appalling context, the view was incredible. There it was, spreading out from left to right in the midst of the pitch-black void... the world. No matter that it was almost deserted; it was still visibly illuminated and covered with vegetation; from this distance, it was possible to make out the sparse scattering of buildings and the people whoƒd survived meandering between them without having even the foggiest idea about the extraordinary phenomenon that lay no more than a stoneƒs throw away. To simplify to a monstrous degree... it looked rather like a panoramic photo of a landscape mounted in the centre of a huge sheet of black cardboard.

Then, suddenly, Karl noticed that more sections of land were beginning to recede and vanish... and, as a result, the tree heƒd fastened the rope to had also disappeared and the rope was now drifting slowly through space. An animal terror swept through him. He thrust desperately with all his limbs, as if he thought that he could ‚swimƒ back to Earth, and instinctively started hauling himself along the rope, still ludicrously expecting that, by some miracle, this would bring him back to the edge of the world.

Fear settled in his mind. He knew that, since he was neither suffocating nor freezing, what awaited him now were long days of dying in the midst of nothingness.

Karl drifted away [1into the boundless darkness and boundless despair].

